2022 Security Chapter (#3142)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2022/security.md

---
#See https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/wiki/Authors'-Guide#metadata-to-add-at-the-top-of-your-chapters
title: Security
description: Security chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering Transport Layer Security, content inclusion (CSP, Feature Policy, SRI), web defense mechanisms (tackling XSS, XS-Leaks), and drivers of security mechanism adoptions.
authors: [SaptakS, feross, lirantal]
reviewers: [kushaldas, tomvangoethem, nrllh, clarkio]

> analysts: [VictorLeP, vikvanderlinden, GJFR]

Reviewer: @SaptakS / @feross / @lirantal can you confirm all contributors are listed, and in descending order of contribution?

If some didn't end up having time to contribute, then please remove them to be fair to others that did.
If we've missed anyone, please add them.

Reviewer 2: @tunetheweb:
- @clarkio should be listed in the authors
- I think he took over ferros's chapters as he couldn't make it

editors: [tunetheweb]
translators: []

> SaptakS_bio: Saptak S is a human rights centered web developer, focusing on usability, security, privacy and accessibility topics in web development. He is a contributor and maintainer of various different open source projects like <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.a11yproject.com">The A11Y Project</a>, <a hreflang="en" href="https://onionshare.org/">OnionShare</a> and <a hreflang="en" href="https://wagtail.org/">Wagtail</a>. You can find him blogging at <a hreflang="en" href="https://saptaks.blog">saptaks.blog</a>.

Reviewer: @SaptakS I copied this from your Accessibility chapter bio. Please change as you see fit.

> feross_bio: Feross Aboukhadijeh, is an entrepreneur, programmer, open source author, and mad scientist. He maintain <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.npmjs.com/~feross">100+ packages on npm</a> which are downloaded 500+ million times per month.

Reviewer: @feross I stole this from your website but please change as you see fit.

> lirantal_bio: Liran is <a hreflang="en" href="https://stars.github.com/profiles/lirantal/">a GitHub Star</a>, world-wide recognized for championing open source software and actively working within communities to inspire and lift other humans. A <a hreflang="en" href="https://github.com/nodejs/security-wg">JavaScript & Node.js software developer, building web applications and command-line tools</a>. <a hreflang="en" href="https://owasp.org/www-project-cwe-toolkit/">A web security activist</a>, engaging in security research, software supply chain security, and regular contributor and project lead to OWASP Foundation projects. <a hreflang="en" href="https://github.com/nodejs/security-wg">An avid member of the Node.js Foundation ecosystem security working group</a>, dedicated to advancing Node.js security awareness and skillset in the open source community. <a hreflang="en" href="https://snyk.io/">Developer Advocate at Snyk</a>.

Reviewer: @lirantal I stole this from your website but please change as you see fit.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, revised here:

```suggestion
lirantal_bio: Known for his open source and JavaScript security initiatives, <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.lirantal.com/">Liran Tal</a> is an award-winning software developer, security researcher, and open source champion in the JavaScript community. He's an internationally recognized <a hreflang="en" href="https://stars.github.com/profiles/lirantal/">GitHub Star</a>, acknowledged for his open source advocacy, and has received the OpenJS Foundation's Pathfinder for Security for his work on Node.js security. His contributions to developer security education include leading OWASP projects, building supply chain security tools, participation in CNCF and OpenSSF initiatives, and authoring books such as O'Reilly's Serverless Security. He leads the developer advocacy team at Snyk.io and is on a mission to empower developers with better application security skills.
```

Reviewer 2: also noting that @clarkio should add his bio as an author too.

results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cwJ43NL2IN2PxJa5oiOoJCRkSh566XE_k9uHnGJdWeg/
featured_quote: TODO

> featured_stat_1: TODO

Reviewer: @SaptakS / @feross / @lirantal can you please suggest a features quote, and 3 key stats for this chapter. This will be randomly shown on the home page to entice people in.

As an example here's what was there last year:

```yaml
featured_quote: Our analysis clearly shows that the situation of web security concerning the provider side has improved compared to previous years. However, our observation also indicates that the web community should do more to ensure better security.
featured_stat_1: 91.1%
featured_stat_label_1: Requests that use HTTPS on mobile
featured_stat_2: 22.2%
featured_stat_label_2: Percentage of top 1000 sites that use CSP
featured_stat_3: 10.7%
featured_stat_label_3: Websites on desktop that use a mechanism to fight malicious bots
```

Reviewer 2: Some suggestions:
- 94% of requests on the desktop use HTTPS
- 25% of requests on mobile have an HSTS header
- 14% relative increase in adoption for Content Security Policy header from 2021.
- 94% of HTTP requests with a CSP header on the desktop include `unsafe-inline`

(the above should probably be edited for proper English grammar as I'm not a native speaker :))

Will let @SaptakS or @clarkio to chime in with other takes.

lirantal_bio: Known for his open source and JavaScript security initiatives, Liran Tal is an award-winning software developer, security researcher, and open source champion in the JavaScript community. He's an internationally recognized GitHub Star, acknowledged for his open source advocacy, and has received the OpenJS Foundation's Pathfinder for Security for his work on Node.js security. His contributions to developer security education include leading OWASP projects, building supply chain security tools, participation in CNCF and OpenSSF initiatives, and authoring books such as O'Reilly's Serverless Security. He leads the developer advocacy team at Snyk.io and is on a mission to empower developers with better application security skills.

> clarkio_bio: Brian is a developer who has been building and architecting software for all different types of purposes and applications. His initial focus was on <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.asp.net/">ASP.NET</a>, <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.microsoft.com/net/">C#/.NET</a>, SQL and WPF, but he has since shifted to technologies such as <a hreflang="en" href="https://swift.org/getting-started/">Swift</a>, <a hreflang="en" href="https://ionicframework.com/">Ionic</a>, <a hreflang="en" href="https://angular.io/">Angular</a> and <a hreflang="en" href="https://nodejs.org">Node.js</a> (basically JavaScript). Brian is an <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.pluralsight.com/authors/brian-clark">author of several courses</a> on <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.pluralsight.com/">Pluralsight</a> and co-authored the <a hreflang="en" href="https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/security.html">Angular Security Guide</a> documentation. He has presented many talks at public and private conferences as well as at local code camps covering topics such as secure application development practices and getting started in Open Source Software.

Reviewer: @clarkio I stole this from your website. I'm going to merge this soon but feel free to open a PR to change this is you want something else.

Reviewer 3: @tunetheweb thanks for grabbing it from there. I need to update my website with a new bio. Could I share the update here with you? Or how should I proceed to open a PR here?

Reviewer: Yup PR would be good. You can just find the `src/content/en/security.md` file and edit it right here on GitHub.com for a simple edit like this.

Reviewer 3: Ok got it, thanks. Here's the PR: https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/pull/3160

> unedited: true

Reviewer: Will give this another editing pass tomorrow and then remove this.
